docs: add guide doc for flex migration (#9222)
rook/rook: Documentation/flexMigration/flex-to-csi-migration.md

> ---

Author: moved

title: Migration
weight: 4100
indent: true
---

# Flex to CSI Migration

The tool [persistent-volume-migrator](https://github.com/ceph/persistent-volume-migrator) aims to help migrate Flex rbd Volumes to Ceph-Csi.

## Prerquisite

This guide assumes you have created a Rook cluster with Flex

> 1) Minimum ceph version should be Ceph-CSI supported.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Rook v1.7.x is required. If you have a previous version of Rook running, follow the [upgrade guide](https://rook.io/docs/rook/v1.7/ceph-upgrade.html) to upgrade from previous releases until on v1.7.x.
2. Enable the CSI driver if not already enabled. See the [operator settings](https://github.com/rook/rook/blob/release-1.7/cluster/examples/kubernetes/ceph/operator.yaml#L29-L32) such as `ROOK_CSI_ENABLE_RBD`.
```

> 2) Volume should be in BOUND state and should **not** be in use.

Reviewer: This is better in the main migration section below
```suggestion
```

> 3) CSI storageClass should be created in which you want to migrate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Create the CSI storage class to which you want to migrate
```

   1) Example: CSI [storageclass](https://github.com/rook/rook/blob/master/cluster/examples/kubernetes/ceph/csi/rbd/storageclass.yaml).

**NOTE**: The Migration procedure will come with a downtime; As we need to scale down the applications using the Volumes before migration.

> ## Steps

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Migrate a PVC
```

> 1) Create rbac required to run migrator pod

Reviewer: Can we merge the rbac.yaml into the same manifest as the migrator pod? This keeps it to a single command to create the manifest.

Author: since we deleted the PR which was adding this file to rook repo. so mean to change this tool repo?

Author: updated

   1) `kubectl create -f cluster/examples/kubernetes/ceph/flex-migration/rbac.yaml`

> 2) Create migrator pod

Reviewer: Let's move the step to create the migrator pod up to the "preparation" section.

>    1) `kubectl create -f cluster/examples/kubernetes/ceph/flex-migration/migrator.yaml`

Reviewer: Link directly to the other repo to create the pod. 
```suggestion
   1) `kubectl create -f https://github.com/ceph/persistent-volume-migrator/blob/main/tests/manifests/migrator.yaml
```

Author: will update soon

Author: done

> 3) Run command to start migration:

Reviewer: The steps for this section would be:
1. Stop the application pod so the PV to migrate is not in use
2. Connect to the migration pod
3. Run the migration tool to migrate the PVC
4. Confirm from the tool output that the migration was successful. (Insert example output so they can see a success message)
5. Start the application again

Author: done.
